README.md, before:

# OTP Builds

> [!WARNING]
> This is a work in progress.

This is a collection of community-maintained
[Erlang/OTP](https://github.com/erlang/otp) binary builds.

Supported operating systems:

* `darwin` (macOS)

Supported architectures:

* `x86_64`
* `aarch64`

The goal of these builds is to be as self-contained as possible. OpenSSL (used by `crypto` app)
and wxWidgets (used by `wx` app and it's dependants, `observer`, `debugger`, and `et`) are
statically linked.

## List of Builds

| Target                  | OpenSSL | wxWidgets            |
|-------------------------|---------|----------------------|
| **OTP 25**              |         |                      |
| `x86_64-apple-darwin`   | 3.1.6   | N/A ²                |
| `aarch64-apple-darwin`¹ | 3.1.6   | N/A ²                |
| **OTP 26**              |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | N/A ² / 3.2.5        |
| **OTP 27**              |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |
| **OTP maint**³          |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |
| **OTP master**³         |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |

¹ JIT is disabled on OTP 25 on `aarch64-apple-darwin`.

² `wx`, `observer`, `debugger`, and `et` apps are only available since OTP 26.1.1.

³ OTP maint and master builds are updated daily.

List of builds can be found here:

* `x86_64-apple-darwin` - <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/x86_64-apple-darwin.csv>
* `aarch64-apple-darwin` - <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv>

Entries in the list of builds follow this pattern:

    {ref_name},{ref},{datetime},{sha256},{openssl_version},{wxwidgets_version}

Where `{ref_name}` is the Erlang/OTP git tag or branch name, `{ref}` is the git sha corresponding
to the `{ref_name}`, `{datetime}` is the time the build was created and `{sha256}` is the build
SHA-256 checksum. The `{openssl_version}` and `{wxwidgets_version}` are versions that we are
statically linking with.

Example `builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv` entry:

    OTP-27.1.2,44ffe8811dfcf3d2fe04d530c6e8fac5ca384e02,2024-10-23T21:02:30Z,9c49d2dc3f0f073b58d7ae9f6cfbcc422dafdb3a85351dcb8efdab3632b4413c,openssl-3.1.6,wxwidgets-3.2.6

## Build Downloads

Build download URLs follow this pattern:

    https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/{ref_name}/{ref_name}-{target}.tar.gz

Where `{ref_name}` is the name of Erlang/OTP git tag or branch name and `{target}` is the target
triple (e.g. `aarch64-apple-darwin`). The supported Erlang/OTP branches are `master` and `maint`.

Example build URLs:

* <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/OTP-27.0.1/OTP-27.0.1-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>
* <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/master/master-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>

After downloading the build you should verify its integrity against builds csv mentioned in the
previous section, for example:

    curl -fLO https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/OTP-27.1.2/OTP-27.1.2-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
    checksum=$(curl -fsSL https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv | grep OTP-27.1.2, | cut -d"," -f4)
    sha256 OTP-27.1.2-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz --check $checksum

## License

[Apache-2.0](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Drop version from release assets to easily download latest asset
With this change this URL will work:

<https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/latest/download/otp-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>

Which is useful for tools that want to grab the latest release without
knowing the exact version (grabbing it using GitHub REST API for example).

README.md, after:

# OTP Builds

> [!WARNING]
> This is a work in progress.

This is a collection of community-maintained
[Erlang/OTP](https://github.com/erlang/otp) binary builds.

Supported operating systems:

* `darwin` (macOS)

Supported architectures:

* `x86_64`
* `aarch64`

The goal of these builds is to be as self-contained as possible. OpenSSL (used by `crypto` app)
and wxWidgets (used by `wx` app and it's dependants, `observer`, `debugger`, and `et`) are
statically linked.

## List of Builds

| Target                  | OpenSSL | wxWidgets            |
|-------------------------|---------|----------------------|
| **OTP 25**              |         |                      |
| `x86_64-apple-darwin`   | 3.1.6   | N/A ²                |
| `aarch64-apple-darwin`¹ | 3.1.6   | N/A ²                |
| **OTP 26**              |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | N/A ² / 3.2.5        |
| **OTP 27**              |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |
| **OTP maint**³          |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |
| **OTP master**³         |         |                      |
| `*-apple-darwin`        | 3.1.6   | 3.2.5                |

¹ JIT is disabled on OTP 25 on `aarch64-apple-darwin`.

² `wx`, `observer`, `debugger`, and `et` apps are only available since OTP 26.1.1.

³ OTP maint and master builds are updated daily.

List of builds can be found here:

* `x86_64-apple-darwin` - <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/x86_64-apple-darwin.csv>
* `aarch64-apple-darwin` - <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv>

Entries in the list of builds follow this pattern:

    {ref_name},{ref},{datetime},{sha256},{openssl_version},{wxwidgets_version}

Where `{ref_name}` is the Erlang/OTP git tag or branch name, `{ref}` is the git sha corresponding
to the `{ref_name}`, `{datetime}` is the time the build was created and `{sha256}` is the build
SHA-256 checksum. The `{openssl_version}` and `{wxwidgets_version}` are versions that we are
statically linking with.

Example `builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv` entry:

    OTP-27.1.2,44ffe8811dfcf3d2fe04d530c6e8fac5ca384e02,2024-10-23T21:02:30Z,9c49d2dc3f0f073b58d7ae9f6cfbcc422dafdb3a85351dcb8efdab3632b4413c,openssl-3.1.6,wxwidgets-3.2.6

## Build Downloads

Build download URLs follow this pattern:

    https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/{ref_name}/otp-{target}.tar.gz

Where `{ref_name}` is the name of Erlang/OTP git tag or branch name and `{target}` is the target
triple (e.g. `aarch64-apple-darwin`). The supported Erlang/OTP branches are `master` and `maint`.

Example build URLs:

* <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/master/otp-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>
* <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/OTP-27.0.1/otp-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>

To download from the _latest_ release, use this URL:

* <https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/latest/download/otp-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz>

After downloading the build you should verify its integrity against builds csv mentioned in the
previous section, for example:

    curl -fLO https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/releases/download/OTP-27.1.2/otp-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
    checksum=$(curl -fsSL https://github.com/erlef/otp_builds/raw/main/builds/aarch64-apple-darwin.csv | grep OTP-27.1.2, | cut -d"," -f4)
    sha256 otp-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz --check $checksum

## License

[Apache-2.0](./LICENSE)
